README.md, before:

# The Vegan Van

(Created by Anna Walsh)

<img src="assets/images/all-devices-white (1).png">


The Vegan Van is a food truck that serves vegan dishes to local customers and tourists exploring the Wild Atlantic Way. The van is based in Dunfanaghy, Co. Donegal. This small business promotes the use of fresh, local produce and has a strong commitment to sustainability. The website offers new and returning customers three fresh and inviting pages to explore. Customers can learn more about the company’s mission and ethos, read previous reviews, review the menu, obtain directions and contact the company if required.  


## Table of Contents
* User Experience 
* Features
* Design
* Technologies Used
* Testing 
* Deployment 
* Credits


## User Experience 

### User Stories 
This website is targeted at both new and returning customers and considered three key client groups. These groups represent the customers most likely to engage with the business and website. 

A) Local community members. 

User Story: Sarah is a busy mum of three living in Co. Donegal. She is proud of her local area and loves to support her community and engage in local initiatives. Sarah requires a business that is child friendly, serves as a meeting point for friends and provides healthy lunch options for her children.

B)	Tourists exploring the Wild Atlantic Way.

User Story: Jonah is a retired policeman touring Donegal in a campervan with his wife. Jonah requires a business where he can sit down outdoors and enjoy a coffee with a view. He seeks to immerse himself in his environment and meet the locals. 

C)	Outdoor Adventurers.

User Story: Richard is a surfing enthusiast. He requires a business where he can enjoy a hot drink and sweet treat after a long and exhausting morning battling the Atlantic swell. He is very health conscious and cares about the environment and sustainability. 

### Website Objectives 

Business Owner Goals:

When developing the website, the business owner hopes to achieve the following;

- Clearly outline the company’s mission and ethos to potential and existing customers. 
- Provide contact details for customers to submit questions/queries/feedback. 
- Outline clear directions to ensure all customers can locate the business. 
- Exhibit menu options in a concise and inviting manner. 
- Build trust with customers by sharing positive reviews from previous clients. 
- Connect with customers online and grow a customer base by sharing social media links. 

New Customer Goals: 

When using the website, new customers hope to achieve the following; 
-	Identify menu options and prices. 
-	Understand the business’s ethos and values. 
-	Locate the business. 
-	Identify opening and closing hours. 

Existing Customer Goals:  

When using the website, existing customers may hope to achieve the following; 
- Contact the business with questions or queries. 
- Identify social media links.
- Review menu options and prices. 

User Expectations: 

- A responsive site that can be viewed across screen sizes.
- Simple and intuitive navigation.
- Links that open as expected. 
- A clean and professional layout. 
- A design that matches the business’s values and brand. 
- Good accessibility. 


## Features 

### Existing Features

The following features are evident across all three site pages: 

**Logo:**
The logo comprises of a simple icon located to the left of the business name. It is responsive and will reduce in size on smaller screens. It also serves as a link to the landing page. 

**Navigation Bar:**
The navigation bar provides links to the home, menu and contact pages. It is styled in a clean and minimalistic manner and allows users to intuitively navigate between site pages. This feature is fully responsive and will float the left on smaller screens. 

<img src="assets/images/navbar.png" alt="screenshot of navbar">

**Footer:**
The footer provides several key features; 
- Address: Note that the “Address” heading serves as a link to the business’s location on google maps. This link opens in a new tab to avoid customers leaving the site without a means of returning. 
- Opening Hours: This allows customers to quickly and easily identify opening and closing hours for the business. 
A phone number for the business. 
- Email and Location icons: These icons change size and colour when hovered over. The email icon serves as a link to the contact page allowing users to easily navigate the website and contact the business directly. The location icon opens the google maps location of the business in a new tab.
- Social Media icons: Four social media icons open key social media websites in a new tab. These icons also change colour and size when hovered over. 
All icons contain aria labels to maintain accessibility. 

<img src="assets/images/footer.png" alt="screenshot of footer">

#### Landing Page Features: 

**Hero Image and Cover Text:** The hero image displays an image of a Volkswagen Van, providing immediate context for the site user. The text overlay includes a catchy slogan to add to the professionalism of the site and helps the site user to better understand the company’s brand. The hero image includes a zoom effect to add visual appeal. 

**Welcome Section:**
This section was designed for skim reading and allows the user to quickly learn about the business’s purpose, mission and value for customers. This section contains a link to the menu page. This link is styled as a button and changes colour when hovered over. 

<img src="assets/images/welcome-section.png" alt="screenshot of welcome section">

**Flip Cards:**
Two eye-catching flip cards encourage the user to interact with the site and provide key information regarding the company’s commitment to sustainability and community service. These cards are fully responsive and will re-position from a row to column layout on smaller screens. 

<img src="assets/images/flip-cards.png" alt="screenshot of flip cards">

**Reviews:**
This section allows the user to learn more about previous customer’s experiences with the business. A second link styled as a button allows the user to intuitively navigate to the menu page. 

<img src="assets/images/reviews (2).png" alt="screenshot of reviews section">

#### Menu Page Features: 

**Menu Panels:** 
Three clean and concise panels provide information on the business’s set menu and pricing. The menu items are organised with information hierarchy in mind; breakfast items are presented first, followed by lunch items and finally drinks and snacks. Each menu item has a creative name to add interest for the user. These panels are responsive and will re-arrange to a column format on smaller screens. There is a strong contrast between the text and background colour to enable easy reading for visually impaired site users. 

<img src="assets/images/menu-screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of menu panels">

**Contact Page Link:** A call to action is included below the menu panels, allowing the user to easily navigate to the contact page. This link changes in size and colour when hovered over. 

#### Contact Page Features: 

**Background Image:** This page contains a background image that remains in place as the user scrolls through the page to add visual appeal. The image reflects the business’s brand as an establishment that values the environment and is situated along the Wild Atlantic Way. 

**Contact Form:** The contact form enables the user to contact the business directly. Users are required to fill out all four sections before the form can be submitted successfully. For computers and laptops, the arrow changes to a pointer when the “send” button is hovered over. 

<img src="assets/images/contact-form.png" alt="screenshot of contact form">


**Map:** A large google map of the business’s location is included at the bottom of the contact page. Users can zoom in and out of the map and drag the map to move it around on the screen. 

<img src="assets/images/map.png" alt="screenshot of map">

### Features Not Yet Implemented

**About Us:** The website could benefit from an additional page providing information on the business owners and their reasons for setting up the business. There is also an opportunity to provide more information on local suppliers and the benefits of acquiring ingredients locally. 
**Online Orders:** There is scope for an online ordering feature that would allow customers to place their order online prior to their visit to reduce waiting times.


## Design

Wireframes: 

This site was designed using pen and paper sketches initially followed by wireframes created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/?gclid=CjwKCAjwzY2bBhB6EiwAPpUpZiC_r2yCcRAPVgL-qLMz8Ii7YTAcwitZP7q-l_gcA9LcTbEchPfaQxoCLG8QAvD_BwE). Please find a selection of the completed wireframes below; 

**Sample 1 : Landing Page (for small devices)**

<img src="assets/images/mobile-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of mobile design for landing page">

**Sample 2 : Menu Page (for larger devices)**

<img src="assets/images/menu-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of desktop design for menu page">

**Sample 3 : Contact Page (for larger devices)**

<img src="assets/images/contact-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of desktop design for contact page">


### Typography: 

This website uses the following two fonts;
- [Playfair Display.](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Playfair+Display/about?query=play)
- [Source Sans Pro.](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro/about?query=Source+sans+pro)

These fonts were selected for their readability and simplistic style. This font pairing was inspired by the following [blog post](https://www.creativebloq.com/typography/20-perfect-type-pairings-3132120) written by Ruth Hamilton. 



Imagery: All images were obtained from the [Unsplash website](https://unsplash.com/) and compressed using [Compress JPG](https://compressjpeg.com/) to improve page loading times. The hero image on the landing page represents a VW van, providing immediate context to the user. The flip card images attempt to demonstrate the healthy, colourful meals available for purchase. Finally, the background images on the menu and contact pages convey beautiful scenery to reflect the business’s surroundings. 

Colour Scheme: The colour scheme includes earthy, neutral and inviting tones. This creates a relaxed atmosphere and reflects the brand identity as an environmentally conscious business. Links, buttons, and backgrounds are styled using the same colours to create a consistent experience for the user.

Commit message:

Readme: add text and links to languages/other resources section, add text to responsiveness subsection

README.md, after:

# The Vegan Van

(Created by Anna Walsh)

<img src="assets/images/all-devices-white (1).png">


The Vegan Van is a food truck that serves vegan dishes to local customers and tourists exploring the Wild Atlantic Way. The van is based in Dunfanaghy, Co. Donegal. This small business promotes the use of fresh, local produce and has a strong commitment to sustainability. The website offers new and returning customers three fresh and inviting pages to explore. Customers can learn more about the company’s mission and ethos, read previous reviews, review the menu, obtain directions and contact the company if required.  


## Table of Contents
* User Experience 
* Features
* Design
* Technologies Used
* Testing 
* Deployment 
* Credits


## User Experience 

### User Stories 
This website is targeted at both new and returning customers and considered three key client groups. These groups represent the customers most likely to engage with the business and website. 

A) Local community members. 

User Story: Sarah is a busy mum of three living in Co. Donegal. She is proud of her local area and loves to support her community and engage in local initiatives. Sarah requires a business that is child friendly, serves as a meeting point for friends and provides healthy lunch options for her children.

B)	Tourists exploring the Wild Atlantic Way.

User Story: Jonah is a retired policeman touring Donegal in a campervan with his wife. Jonah requires a business where he can sit down outdoors and enjoy a coffee with a view. He seeks to immerse himself in his environment and meet the locals. 

C)	Outdoor Adventurers.

User Story: Richard is a surfing enthusiast. He requires a business where he can enjoy a hot drink and sweet treat after a long and exhausting morning battling the Atlantic swell. He is very health conscious and cares about the environment and sustainability. 

### Website Objectives 

Business Owner Goals:

When developing the website, the business owner hopes to achieve the following;

- Clearly outline the company’s mission and ethos to potential and existing customers. 
- Provide contact details for customers to submit questions/queries/feedback. 
- Outline clear directions to ensure all customers can locate the business. 
- Exhibit menu options in a concise and inviting manner. 
- Build trust with customers by sharing positive reviews from previous clients. 
- Connect with customers online and grow a customer base by sharing social media links. 

New Customer Goals: 

When using the website, new customers hope to achieve the following; 
-	Identify menu options and prices. 
-	Understand the business’s ethos and values. 
-	Locate the business. 
-	Identify opening and closing hours. 

Existing Customer Goals:  

When using the website, existing customers may hope to achieve the following; 
- Contact the business with questions or queries. 
- Identify social media links.
- Review menu options and prices. 

User Expectations: 

- A responsive site that can be viewed across screen sizes.
- Simple and intuitive navigation.
- Links that open as expected. 
- A clean and professional layout. 
- A design that matches the business’s values and brand. 
- Good accessibility. 


## Features 

### Existing Features

The following features are evident across all three site pages: 

**Logo:**
The logo comprises of a simple icon located to the left of the business name. It is responsive and will reduce in size on smaller screens. It also serves as a link to the landing page. 

**Navigation Bar:**
The navigation bar provides links to the home, menu and contact pages. It is styled in a clean and minimalistic manner and allows users to intuitively navigate between site pages. This feature is fully responsive and will float the left on smaller screens. 

<img src="assets/images/navbar.png" alt="screenshot of navbar">

**Footer:**
The footer provides several key features; 
- Address: Note that the “Address” heading serves as a link to the business’s location on google maps. This link opens in a new tab to avoid customers leaving the site without a means of returning. 
- Opening Hours: This allows customers to quickly and easily identify opening and closing hours for the business. 
A phone number for the business. 
- Email and Location icons: These icons change size and colour when hovered over. The email icon serves as a link to the contact page allowing users to easily navigate the website and contact the business directly. The location icon opens the google maps location of the business in a new tab.
- Social Media icons: Four social media icons open key social media websites in a new tab. These icons also change colour and size when hovered over. 
All icons contain aria labels to maintain accessibility. 

<img src="assets/images/footer.png" alt="screenshot of footer">

#### Landing Page Features: 

**Hero Image and Cover Text:** The hero image displays an image of a Volkswagen Van, providing immediate context for the site user. The text overlay includes a catchy slogan to add to the professionalism of the site and helps the site user to better understand the company’s brand. The hero image includes a zoom effect to add visual appeal. 

**Welcome Section:**
This section was designed for skim reading and allows the user to quickly learn about the business’s purpose, mission and value for customers. This section contains a link to the menu page. This link is styled as a button and changes colour when hovered over. 

<img src="assets/images/welcome-section.png" alt="screenshot of welcome section">

**Flip Cards:**
Two eye-catching flip cards encourage the user to interact with the site and provide key information regarding the company’s commitment to sustainability and community service. These cards are fully responsive and will re-position from a row to column layout on smaller screens. 

<img src="assets/images/flip-cards.png" alt="screenshot of flip cards">

**Reviews:**
This section allows the user to learn more about previous customer’s experiences with the business. A second link styled as a button allows the user to intuitively navigate to the menu page. 

<img src="assets/images/reviews (2).png" alt="screenshot of reviews section">

#### Menu Page Features: 

**Menu Panels:** 
Three clean and concise panels provide information on the business’s set menu and pricing. The menu items are organised with information hierarchy in mind; breakfast items are presented first, followed by lunch items and finally drinks and snacks. Each menu item has a creative name to add interest for the user. These panels are responsive and will re-arrange to a column format on smaller screens. There is a strong contrast between the text and background colour to enable easy reading for visually impaired site users. 

<img src="assets/images/menu-screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of menu panels">

**Contact Page Link:** A call to action is included below the menu panels, allowing the user to easily navigate to the contact page. This link changes in size and colour when hovered over. 

#### Contact Page Features: 

**Background Image:** This page contains a background image that remains in place as the user scrolls through the page to add visual appeal. The image reflects the business’s brand as an establishment that values the environment and is situated along the Wild Atlantic Way. 

**Contact Form:** The contact form enables the user to contact the business directly. Users are required to fill out all four sections before the form can be submitted successfully. For computers and laptops, the arrow changes to a pointer when the “send” button is hovered over. 

<img src="assets/images/contact-form.png" alt="screenshot of contact form">


**Map:** A large google map of the business’s location is included at the bottom of the contact page. Users can zoom in and out of the map and drag the map to move it around on the screen. 

<img src="assets/images/map.png" alt="screenshot of map">

### Features Not Yet Implemented

**About Us:** The website could benefit from an additional page providing information on the business owners and their reasons for setting up the business. There is also an opportunity to provide more information on local suppliers and the benefits of acquiring ingredients locally. 
**Online Orders:** There is scope for an online ordering feature that would allow customers to place their order online prior to their visit to reduce waiting times.


## Design

Wireframes: 

This site was designed using pen and paper sketches initially followed by wireframes created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/?gclid=CjwKCAjwzY2bBhB6EiwAPpUpZiC_r2yCcRAPVgL-qLMz8Ii7YTAcwitZP7q-l_gcA9LcTbEchPfaQxoCLG8QAvD_BwE). Please find a selection of the completed wireframes below; 

**Sample 1 : Landing Page (for small devices)**

<img src="assets/images/mobile-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of mobile design for landing page">

**Sample 2 : Menu Page (for larger devices)**

<img src="assets/images/menu-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of desktop design for menu page">

**Sample 3 : Contact Page (for larger devices)**

<img src="assets/images/contact-wireframe.png" alt="screenshot of desktop design for contact page">


### Typography: 

This website uses the following two fonts;
- [Playfair Display.](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Playfair+Display/about?query=play)
- [Source Sans Pro.](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro/about?query=Source+sans+pro)

These fonts were selected for their readability and simplistic style. This font pairing was inspired by the following [blog post](https://www.creativebloq.com/typography/20-perfect-type-pairings-3132120) written by Ruth Hamilton. 


### Imagery: 

All images were obtained from the [Unsplash website](https://unsplash.com/) and compressed using [Compress JPG](https://compressjpeg.com/) to improve page loading times. The hero image on the landing page represents a VW van, providing immediate context to the user. The flip card images attempt to demonstrate the healthy, colourful meals available for purchase. Finally, the background images on the menu and contact pages convey beautiful scenery to reflect the business’s surroundings. 

### Colour Scheme: 

The colour scheme includes earthy, neutral and inviting tones. This creates a relaxed atmosphere and reflects the brand identity as an environmentally conscious business. Links, buttons, and backgrounds are styled using the same colours to create a consistent experience for the user. 

## Languages 

This website was developed using [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) and [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS).

**Other resources utilised:**
- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/?gclid=CjwKCAjwzY2bBhB6EiwAPpUpZk0S7N9dTBqOmMjucEl-RaHrCALaWfywQkMhjhyDnrqvvjzUIS_84xoCNJwQAvD_BwE)
- [Github](https://github.com/)
- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/?utm_source=googleads&utm_medium=search&utm_campaign=dynamic_search_ads&utm_id=16501579379&utm_content=dsa&gclid=CjwKCAjwzY2bBhB6EiwAPpUpZh-ASwOdf27vGLxUADgOCQDDFsIZEXFEJC_wF99ftbfAkiIxmDDV4BoCzBMQAvD_BwE)
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) 
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- [Chrome Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/)
